Introductions
Thesis Structure

What types of information should you include in your introduction?
In the introduction of your thesis, you’ll be trying to do three main things,
which are called Moves:
Move 1 establish your territory (say what the topic is about)
Move 2 establish a niche (show why there needs to be further research on your topic)
Move 3 introduce the current research (make hypotheses; state the research questions)
Each Move has a number of stages. Depending on what you need to say in your
introduction, you might use one or more stages. Table 1 provides you with a list
of the most commonly occurring stages of introductions in Honours theses
(colour-coded to show the Moves). You will also find examples of Introductions,
divided into stages with sample sentence extracts. Once you’ve looked at
Examples 1 and 2, try the exercise that follows.

Most thesis introductions include SOME (but not all) of the stages listed below.
There are variations between different Schools and between different theses,
depending on the purpose of the thesis.

Stages in a thesis introduction
state the general topic and give some background
provide a review of the literature related to the topic
define the terms and scope of the topic
outline the current situation
evaluate the current situation (advantages/ disadvantages) and identify the gap
identify the importance of the proposed research
state the research problem/ questions
state the research aims and/or research objectives
state the hypotheses
outline the order of information in the thesis
outline the methodology
Reflection
Now read the following two examples from past theses, noting which stages are
included in each example.  How does example 1 differ from example 2?

Exercise
Read the following sample sentence extracts from Honours theses Introductions.
When you have decided what stage of the Introduction they belong to, refer to
Table 1 and give each sentence extract a number. Then check the suggested answer
to see if your answer agrees with ours.

Introduction Exercise
Reflection
What does this tell you about thesis introductions?
